# Claim ID: 00008

The following claim was made public and reported by many news websites:

> **Pegasus spyware contains comments in the Chinese language**

The claim is considered: :x: **FALSE** :x:

## Why is it false?
The rumour about this Pegasus sample started on Twitter where one user mistakenly attributed an Android application used in game cheating as belonging to the Pegasus family of spyware. However, detailed analysis of the sample showed that it is available on two different Chinese app markets and just shared an open source library with old Android Pegasus samples[^analysis]. This analysis was later independently confirmed by another researcher[^confirmation].

However, the claim was still reported by many news websites, particularly in Poland. It was so widely reported that a question about supposed Chinese origins of Pegasus was asked during the Polish Senate committee hearing. In fact some of the news articles (listed below) still repeat that claim.

## Statement sources
The websites below repeat the claim. This is not a full list of websites.
* Telepolis, _Pegasus trafił do sieci. Każdy może pobrać i sprawdzić_ (in Polish) - [link](https://www.telepolis.pl/wiadomosci/bezpieczenstwo/pegasus-android-github-download)

## Campaigns
The misinformation campaigns below have used this claim.
* Pegasus misinformation campaign.

## Footnotes
[^analysis]: [Twitter thread with the analysis of the supposed sample](https://twitter.com/maldr0id/status/1492274632921169922)
[^confirmation]: [Twitter thread confirming the analysis](https://twitter.com/lukasstefanko/status/1493880409553313793)
