<style>
.emoji-big-size img {height: 12px; width: 12px;}
</style>

# Claim ID: 00007

The following claim is used to discredit some of the forensic work in the mercenary spyware space:

> **it's impossible to analyse a domain that has expired**

{: .emoji-big-size}
The claim is considered: :x: **FALSE** :x:

## Why is it false?
Expired domains are not currently active and do not have the original content[^godaddy]. However, this doesn't mean that the domain historical content cannot be analysed. One of the ways in which historical records of a domain name can be accessed is through passive DNS[^passivedns]. This tool has been an industry standard for over a decade. It would allow to see the historical IP addresses associated with the domain name, as well as other records. Such information can provide insights into the historical setup of a domain name. Some other tools, like VirusTotal, provide even more information, e.g. previous TLS certificates associated with a domain name[^virustotal]. All this combined means that there is a wealth of information from which a forensic investigation can infer what the domain was used for in a particular time in the past.

The statement is therefore false, as the domain does not have to be active in the moment when the investigation is performed.

## Statement sources
The websites below repeat the claim. This is not a full list of websites.
* Gregorio Martín Quetglas, _testimony to the PEGA Commission_ - [link](https://s1.eestatic.com/2022/12/02/espana/ponencia_de_gregorio_martin_sobre_el_-catalangate.pdf)

## Campaigns
The misinformation campaigns below have used this claim.
* Pegasus misinformation campaign.

## Footnotes
[^godaddy]: [What happens when my domain expires?](https://uk.godaddy.com/help/what-happens-when-my-domain-expires-609)
[^passivedns]: [What is Passive DNS? A beginner’s guide](https://www.spamhaus.com/resource-center/what-is-passive-dns-a-beginners-guide/)
[^virustotal]: [historical_ssl_certificates](https://developers.virustotal.com/reference/domain-historical_ssl_certificates)
